# Tutorial 03

## A. Design by Contract

1. What is Design by Contract?
2. Discuss how Design By Contract was applied in assignment-i.
3. Discuss what preconditions, postconditions and invariants are.
4. Consider a `Bird` class with a method `fly` that takes in one integer argument, `height`. This method's precondition is that the height to fly at must be greater than 5 metres, and its postcondition is that the bird will now be flying at that height.\
   If I have a `Penguin` class which overrides the `fly` method with a new precondition that it can only accept a height of 0 metres (since penguins can't fly) and a new postcondition that nothing changes, I have:\
   \- _strengthened_ my preconditions, as not every potential input for `Bird` works for `Penguin` (in fact, none of them do)\
   \- _weakened_ my postconditions, as `Penguin` has an outcome which `Bird` doesn't.\
   Discuss why strengthening preconditions and weakening postconditions violates good inheritance design.
5. In the `people` package, there are a few classes which represent the people at a university
   - Briefly discuss the preconditions and postconditions of the constructors, getters and setters in `Person.java`
   - Fill in the preconditions and postconditions for `setSalary` in `Person.java`
   - Discuss the validity of the subclasses of `Person`, and why they are/aren't valid subclasses
   - Fix any issues you identified before
6. Will you need to write unit tests for something that doesn't meet the preconditions? Explain why.
7. If we were to try make our code more defensive, we could throw an exception on any inputs not satisfying the preconditions. Discuss whether these exceptions are now considered defined behaviour or not, and whether you now need to account for it in your postconditions.

## B. Domain Modelling

In this problem, we are going to create an Object-Oriented domain model for a system with the following requirements.

With success in student projects like Sunswift and Redback, UNSW have decided that they would like to build a system that can show all of the student-built cars (and others) that they have in order to showcase to prospective students interested in STEM and attract students from other universities. They have asked you, as a designer, to produce a model for what this system will look like.

### Requirements

A Car has one or more engines and a producer. The producer is a manufacturing company who has a brand name. Engines are produced by a manufacturer and have a speed. There are only two types of engines within UNSW's cars:

- **Thermal Engines**, which have a default max speed of 114, although they can be produced with a different max speed, and the max speed can change to any value between 100 and 250.
- **Electrical Engines**, which have a default max speed of 180. This is the speed at which they are produced, and the max speed can change to any value that is divisible by 6.

Cars are able to drive to a particular location `x`, `y`.

Since UNSW is a world-leader in technology innovation, they want you to be able to model the behaviour of Time Travelling for _any_ vehicle, and to model a time travelling car. A vehicle that travels in time _stays in the same location_ but travels to a `LocalDateTime`.

**Create a UML diagram which models the domain**.

During the lab, you will build on this UML diagram to incorporate further requirements.

## C. Wondrous

The **Wondrous Sequence** is generated by the simple rule:

- If the current term is even, the next term is half the current term.
- If the current term is odd, the next term is three times the current term, plus 1.

For example, the sequence generated by starting with `3` is:

```txt
3 -> 10 -> 5 -> 16 -> 8 -> 4 -> 2 -> 1
```

If the starting term is `1`, then an empty list is returned.

Inside `src/wondrous/Wondrous.java` there is an implementation of this algorithm. Inside `src/wondrous/test/WondrousTest.java` there is a single test for the function. The test currently fails.

### Part 1 - IDE Programming

Explore the IDE tools built into VSCode:

1. Put a breakpoint on line 13 and run the tests in Debug Mode.
2. Briefly discuss different features of Debug Mode:
   - The variables section
   - The debug console
   - The 'watch' section
   - The call stack
   - Debug control
3. Use the debug tools and the given algorithm to determine why the test is failing, and fix the bug.

### Part 2 - Writing Tests with JUnit

There is a further bug in the function not caught by the given unit test. Find the other bug, and write a corresponding unit test inside `WondrousTest`.

[You can learn more about JUnit here](https://www.vogella.com/tutorials/JUnit/article.html).

### Part 3 - Exceptional Conditions

Modify the method such that if `start` is less than 1, an `IllegalArgumentException` is thrown. Write a corresponding test for this inside `WondrousTest`.

In many cases when we throw an exception we need to update the method signature and existing tests but here we don't - why is this?
